a luxury pooch for royalty the Cavalier
King Charles Spaniel spent most days
warming the laps of nobility the Royals
made them snooze in their beds to
attract fleas sparing their masters
diseases like the plague today they're
the quintessential lap dog it would be
like your idea of the perfect mate sweet
kind gentle affectionate loving if
you're a fan of kissing and beautiful
faces the king charles is definitely the
dog for you today's cavalier king
charles spaniel descends from small toy
spaniels like the pug and the japanese
chin he was brought to Scotland from
continental Europe in the 1500s where he
became a fashionable lap dog for the
noble class King Charles the second was
a huge fan and lent his name to the
breed King Charles never went anywhere
without his two or three little spaniels
when the monarchy fell the Cavalier King
Charles Spaniels popularity fell with it
and the breed almost became extinct the
gentle melting expression of the
Cavalier King Charles Spaniel is an
important breed characteristic often
highlighted by their large dark brown
eyes the coat is silky with a slight
wave and feathering on the ears chest
legs tail and feet Cavalier King Charles
Spaniels come in four colors Prince
Charles or tricolour King Charles or
black and tan Ruby or rich mahogany and
the fourth and most popular color
Blenheim which is chestnut and white the
Cavalier King Charles Spaniel is most
notably known for its sweet gentle and
loving temperament a wonderful dog very
happy-go-lucky very loving they just
tend to be the type of dog whose just
you know nice to everyone nicknamed the
love sponge of dogs Cavalier King
Charles Spaniels love people and need
loads of companionship they make an
excellent companion for almost any dog
lover and are known to be wonderful with
children kids love these dogs and these
dogs love kit it's very important to
make sure that your kids learn to be
gentle with this dog because this is a
meekly framed animal Cavalier King
Charles Spaniels can live happily just
about anywhere they need a daily walk
and should be taken inside a cool place
during very warm conditions these lovely
and fearless dogs want to please so
they're typically a breeze to Train good
job they retain information for a long
time once they learn once they know
exactly what's up yes good job Cavaliers
live on average 9 to 14 years and are
prone to mitral valve heart disease the
leading cause of death in the Cavalier
King Charles Spaniel the Cavalier is 20
times more likely to get this disease
than any other breed it's a
deterioration of the hearts mitral valve
one of the four sets of valves in a
dog's heart when it strikes the mitral
valve add roofies the valve doesn't
fully closed after each pumping action
allowing blood to flow backwards from
the ventricle into the atrium this can
lead to valve collapse and ultimately
congestive heart failure so you need to
make sure that both a mom and dad did
not have heart problems the Cavalier
requires regular grooming special
attention should be paid to the
feathered hair on the ears it's prone to
matting and tangling you want to make
sure that they're clean and tidy because
it's such a beautiful dog who wants to
look at a dirty king charles cavalier
good job so in general the cavalier king
charles is a dog who will happily live
almost anywhere they're prone to several
heart problems daily brushing is
recommended training is a cinch and
their tops for every type of dog lover
young or old